# Modron - A Multi-Purpose Tool for Dungeons and Dragons 5th Edition
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G5IR7a1An1w
#### Description:
(Created for as a final project for the CS50P Course)

(Explanation)

Modron is a multi purpose tool created to automate the proccess of creating a character, and assist in some of the book-searching that comes up while playing them. The program serves two main proccesses to this end, the first of these being character creation.

The character creation aspect of Modron is the more complex of the two, and automates the majority of the process. First, the script generate six values. Each of these values is the result of four, six-sided dice being rolled (4 random integers in the range of 1, 6, using randint from the random library). Afterwards, the lowest of these four dice is dropped from the count, and the remainder are added. This proccess is repeated six times until there is one whole number for every Ability Score, with the lowest possible being 3 and the highest being 18. Afterwards, the user is prompted to reroll, or continue. In most actual ganes, rerolling is not allowed. Once they continue the user is prompted to assign each of these scores to an Ability among the six Ability Scores that make up a character sheet.
When the Ability Scores have been assigned, the user will again be prompted to continue. Assuming they do not return to the main function, an automatic calculation is performed in the background. In Dungeons and Dragons, for every two points above or below 10 in an Ability, the player receives either a positive or negative bonus appropriately, at a rate of 1 per 2 points difference. Bonuses are automatically calculated in the background while the player answers several basic questions in regards to Armor Class, Health, Name, and so on. The player is assumed to be starting at level 1, and as such universal traits like the movement speed are hardcoded.
At the end, a character sheet is generated, with the output using the name the player gave for their Character's name. This is done using the fillpdf library (see requirements).
In the folder for Modron there is an empty PDF named "DnD_5E_CharacterSheet_FormFillable.pdf". This file must remain untouched for the bot to function properly. Any changes made to it will be reflected in the output.

Warning: If the name given to Modron for the Character Name is the same as a pdf already present in the directory, it will be overwritten. Otherwise, as long as the character name is not identical, multiple PDF files will be generated.

The second function of Modron is the Spellbook. By connecting to the Dungeons and Dragons 5th Edition api, the user is prompted to type the name of a spell (Examples for testing: Acid Arrow, Eldritch Blast, Polymorph. See https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells for a full list of the spells that Modron is capable of searching for). If the spell is not found, the user will be reprompted. If a spell is properly entered, the information will be returned in the proper format seen in the 5th Edition Player's Handbook, with the following information: name, level, school, range, description, components, materials, and the classes to which the spell is available.

(Development)

One of the main difficulties I ran into while creating this program was debating whether or not to shorten certain tasks, such as the positive and negative bonuses for ability modifiers. While initially I used a shorter, more concise method (for every 2 points below or above 10, add or subtract 1), I ran into the issue that the rules provided in the DnD Sourcebook didn't line up with this method. Similarly to generating the stats, I ended up having to go with a longer, admittedly slightly more obtuse method than I would like in order to keep the rules in line with the game. One difficult decision was whether I wanted to generate an entire sheet, or just the stats. What I eventually settled for was designing the bot so that it would only fill out the rules that I don't believe anyone would be changing. As DnD is a tabletop game, house rules and custom content are incredibly common, and nearly impossible to account for. So with the choice being between making an incomplete sheet and one that wouldn't be useful for as many people, I chose the former.

Originally this bot was only going to be a character number generator. Funnily enough, what happened is that I played the game and started thinking; 'it'd be nice if I had a quicker way to look up spells'. That was when I started expanding it into the multi-use tool that it is now. Several additional functions such as Encumberance and travel time were nearly also included, but I ended up splitting them into a different program on my own time, since they use several house rules from my own games.

The most difficult part of Modron, without even coming close, was making the PDF export properly. This was very hard. I went through several libaries that didn't quite do what I wanted, and for a very long time it worked off of coordinates (i.e. place a variable at x, y coordinates on pdf). The problem was, this made it uneditable, since they were being hard coded into the PDF. My solution was to instead fill them out using the coded names of the fields. So I actually ended up writing a DIFFERENT script for myself called sortNames.py. The short lived sortNames.py would take a pdf as an input, get every field name in the document, and then fill them out on a new line each with a preceeding number in a txt file. So for examples, it would look something like "#1 character name \n #2 player name \n #36 charisma" etc, etc. This was when it became ACTUALLY functional, and took a very long time to figure out. But once I got sortNames.py working it basically saved everything else, and I as able to use the formFields method that you see in Modron's dice class.
